Add InventoryHolder developer docs (#132)
PaperMC/docs: docs/paper/dev/api/custom-inventory-holder.md

---
slug: /dev/custom-inventory-holder
---

# Custom InventoryHolder

> InventoryHolder can be used to identify your plugin's inventories in events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom InventoryHolders can be used to identify your plugin's inventories in events.
```

## Why use an InventoryHolder?

> InventoryHolder simplifies the steps you need to do to make sure an inventory was created by your plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom InventoryHolders simplify the steps you need to do to make sure an inventory was created by your plugin.
```

:::info

Using inventory names for identification is unreliable as other plugins can create inventories with names exactly as yours

> and with Components you need to make sure the name is exactly the same or serialize it to other formats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and with components you need to make sure the name is exactly the same or serialize it to other formats.
```

> InventoryHolder has no such downsides and by using it you're guaranteed to have methods available to handle your inventory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom InventoryHolders have no such downsides and by using them you're guaranteed to have methods available to handle your inventory.
```

:::

> ## Creating an InventoryHolder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Creating a custom InventoryHolder
```

You can do that wherever you need.

:::note

We pass an instance of our plugin's main class as it's required by the constructor. If you've used the static method and removed the constructor
argument you don't have to pass it here.

:::

```java
Player player; // Assume we have a Player instance.
               // This can be a command, another event or anywhere else you have a Player.

MyInventory myInventory = new MyInventory(myPlugin);
player.openInventory(myInventory.getInventory());
```

## Listening to an event

Once we have the inventory open, we can listen to any inventory events we like and check if the `Inventory#getHolder()`
returns an instance of our `MyInventory`.

```java
@EventHandler
public void onInventoryClick(InventoryClickEvent event) {
	Inventory inventory = event.getInventory();
	// Check if the holder is our MyInventory,
	// if yes, use instanceof pattern matching to store it in a variable immediately.
	if (!(inventory.getHolder() instanceof MyInventory myInventory)) {
		// It's not our inventory, ignore it.
		return;
	}

	// Do what we need in the event.
}
```

> ## Storing data on the InventoryHolder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Storing data on the custom InventoryHolder
```

> You can store extra data for your inventories on the InventoryHolder by adding fields and methods to your class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can store extra data for your inventories on the custom InventoryHolder by adding fields and methods to your class.
```
